<details>
<summary><h1>1. Deep learning, Machine Learning, Artificial Inteligence and Neutral Network</h1></summary>


</details>


<details>
<summary><h1>2. Deep learning latest development</h1></summary>


</details>


<details>
<summary><h1>3. Machine learning basic concepts</h1></summary>

## 3.1 Samples, features and labels

## 3.2 Classification and Regression

## 3.3 Supervised learning and Unsupervised learning

## 3.4 How to check a model is good or not?

</details>

<details>
<summary><h1>4. Implement deep learning: PyTorch framework introduction</h1></summary>
We use Pandas and NumPy to perform very low-level, fundamental operations, so we generally don't consider them to be frameworks.
However, PyTorch and scikit-learn are built on top of libraries like NumPy, forming higher-level libraries. In these libraries, we generally do not perform very low-level and basic operations, but instead focus on building complex programs to solve problems. For such libraries, we call them frameworks.

## 4.1 PyTorch advantages
How can we achieve excellent results with a neural network algorithm? In machine learning, we improve the performance of algorithms through model selection, parameter tuning, feature engineering, and other techniques. However, in neural networks, we can actually only do two things:

- 1. Increase data size.
- 2. Adjust neural network architecture. This refers to adjusting the number of neurous on the grid, the number of layers in the netowrk, and the way information is transmitted between grids.

## 4.2 PyTorch basic architecture



</details>














